AfricaFoodPricesMonitor
=======================
LIVE SITE - http://myafrica-foodprices.rhcloud.com

1.1 Purpose
=======================
To monitor and analyze prices of staple food for East and Central African countries.
To analyze food price indices generated by each country's bureau of statistics every month.
http://www.fao.org/giews/pricetool/
The data generated will help to enable the flow of food from surplus areas to deficit areas
and from markets where the prices are low to where prices are high, thus reducing food
shortages.
The data to be visualized on an interactive map.
It will act as decision support system for an agriculture commodity trader so they can
maximize profits by selling or buying goods which would give the highest possible returns.
The software upon a user’s preferred choice of country will generate possible trade setups.
The web application will be able to display prices of food visually on an interactive map of
Africa.
Web application to have easy to understand graph chart of the commodities.
The software is expected to increase competition and resilience to price volatility in Africa.
1.2 Expected Outcome
========================
It is expected to increase competition and resilience to price volatility in African nations.
If the idea is successfully implemented the web application could be taken up by The Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
The Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in East and Central Africa (ASARECA) is
believed to be developing a similar tool and my project could possibly complement this great
idea for a good cause.

Functional Requirements
=======================
1. The system must be able to vizualize various food commodity prices data on a map of
Africa.
2. The system must be able to allow users to select any number of countries on the map
and display its food data.
3. The system must be able to display any user selected food price data on a country or the
entire african continant.
4. The user should have access to details of the food commodity upon selecting food
marker on the map.
5. The system must also generate a graph of the food prices of the selected commodity
upon user request.
6. The system must allow users to select mutiple country.
7. System must allow users to do map functions like panning and zooming.
8. The system must be able to analyse food prices data of a commodity and display it
graphically. E.g. Up and Down arrows showing the direction of prices.
9. The user has the option to select two modes of the map. Viz; Commodity Prices, Smart
Trade.
10. The system should be capable of generating smart trade setups on user selected
countries or market.
11. The system could be capable of generating price forecasting model.

Non- Functional Requirements
=============================
1. Do indexing of table for faster performance. // Modified
2. The application must be mobile interface friendly.
3. The food prices data should be updated regularly.
4. The system should be optimized to render map images efficiently and fast.
5. The system must be capable of handling one to many number of simultaneous
users.
6. The system should be maintainable by an administrator.
8. The admin account should be SSL protected.

